[Music]
in the third year of the reign of king
belshazzar
a vision appeared to me to me Daniel
after the one that appeared to me the
first time I saw in the vision and it so
happened while I was looking that I was
in Shushan the citadel which is in the
province of Elam and I saw in the vision
that I was by the river you lie then I
lifted my eyes and saw and there
standing beside the river was a ram
which had two horns and the two horns
were high but one was higher than the
other and the higher one came up last I
saw the RAM
pushing westward northward and southward
so that no animal could withstand it nor
was there any that could deliver from
his hand but he did according to his
will and became great and as I was
considering suddenly a male goat came
from the West across the surface of the
whole earth without touching the ground
and the goat had a notable horn between
his eyes then he came to the RAM that
had two horns which I had seen standing
beside the river and ran at him with
furious power and I saw him confronting
the RAM he was moved with rage against
him attack the RAM and broke his two
horns
there was no power in the RAM to
withstand him but he cast him down to
the ground and trampled and there was no
one that could deliver the RAM from his
hand
therefore the male goat grew very great
but when he became strong the large horn
was broken and in place of it four
notable ones came up toward the four
winds of heaven and out of one of them
came a little horn which grew
exceedingly great toward the south
toward the east and toward the glorious
land and they grew up to the hosts of
heaven and had cast down some of the
host and some of the stars to the ground
and trampled them he even exalted
himself as high as the Prince of the
host and by him the daily sacrifices
were taken away and the place of his
sanctuary was cast down because of
transgression an army was given over to
the horn to oppose the daily sacrifices
and he cast truth down to the ground he
did all this and prospered then I heard
the Holy Ones speaking and another Holy
One said to that certain one who was
speaking how long will the vision be
concerning the daily sacrifices and the
transgression of desolation the giving
of both the sanctuary and the host to be
trampled underfoot and he said to me for
2300 days then the sanctuary shall be
cleansed then it happened
when I Daniel had seen the vision and
was seeking the meaning that suddenly
they stood before me one having the
appearance of a man and I heard a man's
voice between the banks of the you'll I
who called and said Gabriel make this
man understand the vision so he came
near where I stood and when he came I
was afraid and fell on my face but he
said to me understand son of man that
the vision refers to the time of the end
now as he was speaking with me
I was in a deep sleep with my face to
the ground but he touched me and stood
me up right look I am making known to
you what shall happen in the latter time
of the indignation for at the appointed
time the end shall be the RAM which you
saw having the two horns they are the
kings of media and Persia and the male
goat is the kingdom of Greece the large
horn that is between its eyes is the
first king as for the broken horn and
the four that stood up in its place four
kingdoms shall arise out of that nation
but not with its power and in the latter
time of their Kingdom when the
transgressors have reached their
fullness a king shall arise having
fierce features who understands sinister
schemes his power shall be mighty but
not by his own power he shall destroy
fearfully and shall prosper and thrive
he shall destroy the mighty and also the
holy people through his cunning he shall
cause deceit to prosper under his rule
and he shall exalt himself in his heart
he shall destroy many in their
prosperity he shall even rise against
the Prince of princes but he shall be
broken without human means and the
vision of the evenings and mornings
which was told is truth therefore seal
up the vision for it refers to many days
in the future
[Music]
and I Daniel fainted and was sick for
days afterward I arose and went about
the King's business I was astonished by
the vision but no one understood it